All right in this section of the course we're going to build a really cool sort of asset.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So I have a document and the size of it is 10 80 by 1920 and the resolution is set to 150.
Now I want to go ahead and add a new layer above this and use this layer to do my sketch on.
So switching over to my paintbrush tool I'm going to go ahead and just start sketch now what I want
my sword to look like.
So I'm going to start out with the bud of my sword.
So I think I'm going to have it rectangular like so and then I might add a little bit more detail like
a bottom piece and a top piece
something like that.
And this might be a little bit too small something to bring up the size just a little bit and then ominous
paint in the handle
and I'll paint it in the guard.
I think go have a curve up like this.
I remember this doesn't have to be perfect.
This is going to be your guide for creating the actual shapes that make up your swords so don't worry
if this isn't perfect you just want to get those basic shapes out.
Then we'll add the blade in.
I think I just want the blade to be a straight blade
something like so for it cool.
So now we have our sketch.
Let's go ahead and move that to the center of our page.
I'm also going to add a little bit of detail in there just so I know what we're going to be doing.
So I think I have a line going straight up like so to divide the two planes on this sword blade and
then over here we're also going to have this wrapped in leather straps.
So great.
Now let's go ahead and start building the sheeps for the sword.
Someone at a new layer.
And on this new layer I'm going to start with this part of the handle because that's going to be behind
everything else.
So I'm going to use my marquee tool and I'm going to make a rectangular selection like so then I'm going
to go ahead and fill that in and I'm going to fill it in with almost like a reddish Violet and I'm going
to grab my collar from somewhere about here a little bit darker some down there should be good not go
ahead and fill that in.
Next I'm going to use my Transform Tool to first pull this down so it's level and then I'm going to
turn on my warp transform.
So I'll turn that on.
And now I'll drag that to that corner and I'm just going to get this into its correct shape.
Then we can go ahead and hit enter next.
Let's work on the blood of our sort.
So I want to add a new layer above this.
And first I'm going to create this shape right here.
So just using my rectangular tool I'll go ahead and create that and then I'm going to fill that in with
a dark gray.
Someone come to summer about here and I'm going to come more towards my blues.
So somewhere in there that I had OK and fill that in.
Now add a little bit more shape to it.
So use my Transform Tool going to go ahead and work that.
I just want to bring the bottom area and just the tiniest bit.
Same with this bottom area and same on the top.
This is just to give it a little bit more of an interesting shape than just a rectangle that we can
go ahead and hit enter.
Now these two are not lined up very well.
So what I'll do is I'll grab this and I'll move it over until it's clicks into the center like so.
Next I'm going to add this piece that goes on top so I add a new layer above this.
These are my rectangular marquee tool or make a selection like so.
And then I'll fill that in with my gray.
And then I'll use my grab move tool to get that into the center.
Now let's go ahead and move up to the guard.
So add a new layer and I'm going to first add this piece of the guard.
So fill that in with gray and then make sure that that's centered.
So I'm pretty sure I'm good right there.
Then using my lasso tool I'm going to go ahead and click and basically trace out the shape that I've
drawn here.
And then I can go ahead and come down and reconnect that like so then I'm going to add a new layer.
So this is on its own separate layer and I'll fill that in with the dark gray.
Next I'm going to make a copy of this but rather than copying belayer what I'm going to do is I'm going
to copy that image on the same layer so the switch over to my Graben move tool then holding down alt
on my keyboard for option.
If you're on a Mac I'm going to go ahead and click and drag that and that allows me to make a copy of
that on the same layer.
Next I'm going to go ahead and select that and turn on my Transform Tool and then flip that horizontal
enter.
And now I can go ahead and drag that over and move it into place just like so.
Let's go ahead and turn off our background sketch to see how this looks so far.
Great.
Everything is looking pretty symmetrical.
Now we can go ahead and move on to the blade.
So I'm going to add one new layer and I'm going underneath this handle right here.
It's going to be the very bottom layer and the handle is actually going to be very easy to create.
All we have to do is use our Lasso tool and we're going to come straight up by holding down shift.
And once we get up here to this point all we're going to do is we're just going to trace that out.
So tool remember to use really small winds to get that curve in there.
And then we're just going to come straight down like so and then we're going to fill that in with a
blue.
So I'm going to come into my blues probably want summer about here and I'm in that range in my blues
head OK.
And then I'm going to fill that in.
Then I'm going to go ahead and grab that with my old key or Option key and drag the copy over.
Then I'm going to select it transform it and flip it horizontal then I can go ahead and move that into
place and get it all lined up.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and turn off our background sketch and make sure that blade is lined up so it's not.
So what we need to do is first we need to merge these two layers.
So now that blade is one layer and then we need to drag this over until it lines up correctly.
So right there is perfect.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to draw your sword and then you learn how to lay out the colors and
the shape for it.
Remember that you want to make everything on separate layers because when we go in there we're going
to be painting on clipping layer masks and so we want to be able to paint individually on each part
with a sword.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.